# CS305
CS 305 Course
Submit one of the artifacts listed above. Then update the README file in your repository and include your answers to each question below. You may choose to include the questions and write a few sentences in response to each one, or you may choose to write a paragraph or two bringing all your answers together. This assignment is graded as pass/fail, and you can earn full credit by responding to each of the following questions:

Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
I would choose the Advance Encryption Standard (AES), since this provides the most usual form of security since the internet is involved. It is also secure for known security risks. AES is trusted by larger companies; it does have its downsides. Meaning that all parties involved have a key they use to decrypt the information, this is also known as Symmetric Encryption. Even though the information is encrypted, the key can be stolen and used to decrypt the data. For example, if the key is used when someone is using a public Wi-Fi, the key can be intercepted from your device. This could also be done if you use an unsafe Wi-Fi network.
Since AES is used as the security backbone for many companies and organizations it is regulated by the government. If the regulations were not there it could cause some cost cutting companies to think they are saving money on security, but in turn they are making it easier for hackers to steal information and even money. If the company and their clients are hacked it could cause the local economy to lose millions if not billions depending on the types of business. It is imperative for the companies and customers to have their data secure. 
The algorithm cipher is used to help secure a file when it is sent. This could be documents, pictures, etc. The way this helps secure the information is that the recipient will also have the algorithm so they can unscramble the data received and see what the file is. If someone can hack and steal the data, they are not able to read it as they do not have the algorithm key.
After researching the several types, the advanced encryption standard is the best option. This is due to how impervious it is against hackers. However, the one drawback is that it is susceptible to a brute force attack. It could take a while but in the end it can break. But that is as of right now. We have seen how devices have changed over the years along with programming as well. In the future AES could not be the best one to use.

What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
Providing secure communications is important due to how the data is protected when moving from server and clients. Some of the ways we can ensure that is by using encryption and authentication. It is a top priority to ensure that all sensitive information is secure. If it is not thought of as a top priority, it could lead to customers being open to threats of identity theft or fraud. This would not only tarnish the customer but also our company as well. Global Rain can be used to track international transactions, as they specialize in custom software design and development for clients around the world. Since there is no government restriction about how secure communications should be. However financial institutions are regulated such as Global Rain must adhere to. 

What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
For me I had trouble seeting up teh program to run correctly. ONce I figured out how to list teh data so it can pull the check. I was able to get it to run as exected but I still had trouble getting the web function to work.

How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
The mitigation plan includes the results of the source code analysis. The analysis will help keep the program sticking to the desired plan. This could identify and allow many vulnerabilities and show the severity of threat levels. By using the mechanical tools of source code analysis needs to be used during several stages of development throughout the software’s lifecycle. By trying to just identify vulnerabilities can cause the developer to spend more time trying to adjust the code and start the stages of development. Due to time restraints and project timelines the longer it takes to fix something the more time it gives the attackers more time try and cause damage.]


How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
I compared the data from teh dependency check from before and after. I also tried to make sure that I matched the best security type with the options that the custpmer needed to see. However if the code is not able to run correctly but it will show more vulnerabilities if the code is not secure.

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
I used some of the resources from the internet and the instructor. However the best resource was from fellow students who were able to help me understand what is needed to be done. That is where I struggle the most is i do better if I can see how to do visually and then trial and error.


Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
I woud probably show the first option and how it operates. However I should be able to show how the program works correctly and it will be able to help promote myself as they can see the how the work started and how it finished. I would also try to help promote my skills by being as repared as I can be to help eleviate any concerns they may have.

